README.md, before:

# Master Thesis 
## Food Security and Climate Shocks
### The Resilience of Food Prices to Droughts in Malawi. A Machine Learning Approach.

This is the GitHub repository corresponding to the Master Thesis of Lena B..

![SDG-2.png](images/sdg-2.png) ![SDG-13.png](images/sdg-13.png) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Data
The data merges data on food prices for different commodities and markets provided by WFP, as well as climate data on droughts, based on the SPEI as a drought indicator.  

**The final dataset can be found [here](output/final-dta.xlsx)**.

## Structure 
### [input](input)
### Food price data
![Screenshot vam.png](images/screenshot-wfp-vam.png)
[Food prices](input/Malawi/food-price-dta/csv-prices) have been obtained via the open source database of WFP.  
Temporal Unit of analysis: Month  

_Source_:

- [WFP vam database](https://dataviz.vam.wfp.org/economic_explorer/prices)

Link used to extract data for central region [14.06.2022, 14:12]:  
- [Link](https://dataviz.vam.wfp.org/economic_explorer/prices)
### Coordinates of Markets
Further data upon [market coordinates](input/Malawi/food-price-dta/longs%20and%20lats) has been kindly provided upon request via the team of WFP.

### Climate data (drought)
![Screenshot Spei database.png](images/screenshot-spei-database.png)  
_Screenshot: [SPEI Global Drought Monitor](https://spei.csic.es/spei_database/#map_name=spei01#map_position=1439)_
- [SPEI Global Drought Monitor](https://spei.csic.es/map/maps.html#months=1#month=4#year=2022)

- [Selection Malawi](https://spei.csic.es/map/maps.html#months=0#month=4#year=2022)
- [Global SPEI Database](https://spei.csic.es/database.html#p7)  




--------------------------------------------------------------
## Additional Useful Links

### WFP
- [VAM Resource Center](https://resources.vam.wfp.org/)
- [Overview Malawi Dataviz](https://dataviz.vam.wfp.org/version2/country/malawi)

Commit message:

Some plots and sum stats preproc

README.md, after:

# Master Thesis 
## Food Security and Climate Shocks
### The Resilience of Food Prices to Droughts in Malawi. A Machine Learning Approach.

This is the GitHub repository corresponding to the Master Thesis of Lena B..

![SDG-2.png](images/sdg-2.png) ![SDG-13.png](images/sdg-13.png) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Data
The data merges data on food prices for different commodities and markets provided by WFP, as well as climate data on droughts, based on the SPEI as a drought indicator.  

**The final dataset for Malawi can be found [here](output/Malawi/Malawi-final-dta.xlsx)**.

## Structure Malawi
- [input folder Malawi](input/Malawi)
  - [food price data](input/Malawi/food-price-dta/csv-prices)
  - [lon lat for markets](input/Malawi/food-price-dta/csv-lons-and-lats)
  - [inflation data WFP](input/Malawi/inflation-dta/WFP)
- [output folder Malawi](output/Malawi)
  - [Summary statistics (Doc. Preproecessing)](output/Malawi/summary-statistics)
  - [Plots](output/Malawi/plots)
### Food price data
![Screenshot vam.png](images/screenshot-wfp-vam.png)
[Food prices](input/Malawi/food-price-dta/csv-prices) have been obtained via the open source database of WFP.  
Temporal Unit of analysis: Month  

_Source_:

- [WFP vam database](https://dataviz.vam.wfp.org/economic_explorer/prices)

Link used to extract data for central region [14.06.2022, 14:12]:  
- [Link](https://dataviz.vam.wfp.org/economic_explorer/prices)
### Coordinates of Markets
Further data upon [market coordinates](input/Malawi/food-price-dta/csv-lons-and-lats) has been kindly provided upon request via the team of WFP.

### Climate data (drought)
![Screenshot Spei database.png](images/screenshot-spei-database.png)  
_Screenshot: [SPEI Global Drought Monitor](https://spei.csic.es/spei_database/#map_name=spei01#map_position=1439)_
- [SPEI Global Drought Monitor](https://spei.csic.es/map/maps.html#months=1#month=4#year=2022)

- [Selection Malawi](https://spei.csic.es/map/maps.html#months=0#month=4#year=2022)
- [Global SPEI Database](https://spei.csic.es/database.html#p7)  




--------------------------------------------------------------
## Additional Useful Links

### WFP
- [VAM Resource Center](https://resources.vam.wfp.org/)
- [Overview Malawi Dataviz](https://dataviz.vam.wfp.org/version2/country/malawi)
